Frog
====

Asynchronous Graph Processing on GPU

Modern GPUs have been widely used to accelerate the graph processing for complicated computational problems regarding graph theory. Many parallel graph algorithms adopt the asynchronous computing model to accelerate the iterative convergence. Unfortunately, the consistent asynchronous computing requires locking or the atomic operations, leading to significant penalties/overheads when implemented on GPUs. To this end, coloring algorithm is adopted to separate the vertices with potential updating conflicts, guaranteeing the consistency/correctness of the parallel processing. Common coloring algorithms, however, may suffer from low parallelism because of a large number of colors generally required for processing a large-scale graph with billions of vertices.

We propose a light-weight asynchronous processing framework called Cactus with a hybrid coloring model. The fundamental idea is based on Pareto principle (or 80-20 rule) about coloring algorithms as we observed through masses of real graph coloring cases. We find that majority of vertices (about 80\%) are colored with only a few colors, such that they can be read and updated in a very high parallel degree without violating the sequential consistency. Accordingly, our solution will separate the processing of the vertices based on the distribution of colors. In this work, we mainly answer the three questions: (1) how to partition the vertices in a spare graph with maximized parallelism, (2) how to process large-scale graphs which are out of GPU memory, and (3) how to reduce the overhead of data transfers on PCI-e while processing each partition. Experiments based on real-world data show that our asynchronous GPU graph processing engine outperforms other state-of-the-art approaches by over 4.3X-26.2X.